README.md, before:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-22041afd0340ce965d47ae6ef1cefeee28c7c493a6346c4f15d667ab976d596c.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/JTXl4WMa)
[![Open in Visual Studio Code](https://classroom.github.com/assets/open-in-vscode-2e0aaae1b6195c2367325f4f02e2d04e9abb55f0b24a779b69b11b9e10269abc.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/online_ide?assignment_repo_id=21272521&assignment_repo_type=AssignmentRepo)
# COMP 163 - Project 1: Character Creator & Chronicles
# 🎯 Project Overview

Build a text-based RPG character creation and story progression system that demonstrates mastery of functions and file I/O operations.

# Required Functions 
Complete these functions in project1_starter.py:

create_character(name, character_class) - Create new character

calculate_stats(character_class, level) - Calculate character stats

save_character(character, filename) - Save character to file

load_character(filename) - Load character from file

display_character(character) - Display character info

level_up(character) - Increase character level

# 🎭 Character Classes
Implement these character classes with unique stat distributions:


Warrior: High strength, low magic, high health

Mage: Low strength, high magic, medium health

Rogue: Medium strength, medium magic, low health

Cleric: Medium strength, high magic, high health

# 📁 Required File Format
Your save_character() function must create files in this exact format:

Character Name: [name]

Class: [class]

Level: [level]

Strength: [strength]

Magic: [magic]

Health: [health]

Gold: [gold]


# Run specific test file
python -m pytest tests/test_character_creation.py -v

# Test your main program
python project1_starter.py

GitHub Testing:

After pushing your code, check the Actions tab to see automated test results:

✅ Green checkmarks = tests passed
❌ Red X's = tests failed (click to see details)

# ⚠️ Important Notes
Protected Files

DO NOT MODIFY files in the tests/ directory

DO NOT MODIFY files in the .github/ directory

Modifying protected files will result in automatic academic integrity violation

# AI Usage Policy

✅ Allowed: AI assistance for implementation, debugging, learning

📝 Required: Document AI usage in code comments

🎯 Must be able to explain: Every line of code during interview

# 📝 Submission Checklist

 All required functions implemented
 
 Code passes all automated tests
 
 README updated with your documentation
 
 Interview scheduled and completed
 
 AI usage documented in code comments

# 🏆 Grading

Implementation (70%): Function correctness, file operations, error handling

Interview (30%): Code explanation and live coding challenge

Commit message:

Update README with project overview and details
Added project overview and details about game concept, design choices, AI usage, and instructions for running the code.

README.md, after:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-22041afd0340ce965d47ae6ef1cefeee28c7c493a6346c4f15d667ab976d596c.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/JTXl4WMa)
[![Open in Visual Studio Code](https://classroom.github.com/assets/open-in-vscode-2e0aaae1b6195c2367325f4f02e2d04e9abb55f0b24a779b69b11b9e10269abc.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/online_ide?assignment_repo_id=21272521&assignment_repo_type=AssignmentRepo)
# COMP 163 - Project 1: Character Creator & Chronicles
# 🎯 Project Overview

•	Game Concept: What's your RPG world about?  This program is about creating a character to play in a fantasy realm. I tried to change the character class seciton to Fae, Human, Demon, and Guardian. However, the test cases wouldn't pass with those changes so I changed it back to the suggested character classes. 
•	Design Choices: Why did you choose your stat formulas? I used a loop for the level up function using += 1. In order to make sure the stats also increased I had to multiply by the level variable under create a character. 
•	Bonus Creative Features: Did you add anything unique? I tried to change the character classes to fae, human, demon and guardian, however the test cases wouldn't pass for those character classes so I switched them back to the suggessted character classes. Once project is completed, I plan on changing them back to that. 
•	AI Usage: What AI assistance did you use and where? I used AI to create the majority of the code. I went through the code and corrected anything that needed correcting. AI wanted to use try/except in the code, but we haven't gone over that so I had to fix those functions to be if, for or while statements.
•	How to Run: Clear instructions for testing your code. When running the code, you enter the name and the character class you would like to play. The stats for that character will then populate. 


Build a text-based RPG character creation and story progression system that demonstrates mastery of functions and file I/O operations.

# Required Functions 
Complete these functions in project1_starter.py:

create_character(name, character_class) - Create new character

calculate_stats(character_class, level) - Calculate character stats

save_character(character, filename) - Save character to file

load_character(filename) - Load character from file

display_character(character) - Display character info

level_up(character) - Increase character level

# 🎭 Character Classes
Implement these character classes with unique stat distributions:


Warrior: High strength, low magic, high health

Mage: Low strength, high magic, medium health

Rogue: Medium strength, medium magic, low health

Cleric: Medium strength, high magic, high health

# 📁 Required File Format
Your save_character() function must create files in this exact format:

Character Name: [name]

Class: [class]

Level: [level]

Strength: [strength]

Magic: [magic]

Health: [health]

Gold: [gold]


# Run specific test file
python -m pytest tests/test_character_creation.py -v

# Test your main program
python project1_starter.py

GitHub Testing:

After pushing your code, check the Actions tab to see automated test results:

✅ Green checkmarks = tests passed
❌ Red X's = tests failed (click to see details)

# ⚠️ Important Notes
Protected Files

DO NOT MODIFY files in the tests/ directory

DO NOT MODIFY files in the .github/ directory

Modifying protected files will result in automatic academic integrity violation

# AI Usage Policy

✅ Allowed: AI assistance for implementation, debugging, learning

📝 Required: Document AI usage in code comments

🎯 Must be able to explain: Every line of code during interview

# 📝 Submission Checklist

 All required functions implemented
 
 Code passes all automated tests
 
 README updated with your documentation
 
 Interview scheduled and completed
 
 AI usage documented in code comments

# 🏆 Grading

Implementation (70%): Function correctness, file operations, error handling

Interview (30%): Code explanation and live coding challenge
